---
title: Introduction
description: Learn how to install MCDash on your server
icon: 'lucide:info'
---

## Installation

::tabs{variant="card"}
::div{label="Plugin/Mod" icon="lucide:puzzle"}
    ::steps
    ### Download the dashboard

    Click [here](https://modrinth.com/plugin/mcdash) to download the plugin for your server software

    ### Upload the dashboard

    Now you need to upload the plugin to your server. Depending on your server software, you have to upload the plugin 
    to the `plugins` or `mods` folder.

    ### Restart your server

    To load the plugin, you have to restart your server. After the restart, the plugin should be loaded and you can 
    access the dashboard.

    ### Creating your password

    To create your password, you have to execute the following command either in the console or in-game:

    ```
    /account password <password>
    ```

    ::alert
    **Note:** You have to replace `<password>` with your new password
    ::

    ::

::
::div{label="Vanilla" icon="lucide:blocks"}
    ::steps
    ### Install java

    If not already installed, you have to install Java on your server. 

        ::tabs{variant="card"}
        ::div{label="Linux" icon="fa:linux"}
        If you're running Linux, you can install Java with the following command:
        ```bash
        sudo apt install openjdk-20-jre
        ```
        ::
        ::div{label="Windows" icon="fa:windows"}
        If you're running Windows, you can download Java from [here](https://www.oracle.com/de/java/technologies/downloads/).
        ::
        ::

    ### Create your server directory

    Create a new directory on your server where you want to store the dashboard. You can create the directory with the
    following command:
    ```bash
    mkdir mcdash
    ```

    Once you've created the directory, you can change into it with the following command:
    ```bash
    cd mcdash
    ```

    ### Download the standalone .jar

    Click [here](https://modrinth.com/plugin/mcdash) to download the standalone .jar file. Once you've downloaded the
    file, you have to move it to the directory you created earlier.

    ### Create service file

    Create a new service file with the following command:
    ```bash
    nano /etc/systemd/system/mcdash.service
    ```
    Add the following content to the file:
    ```ini
    [Unit]
    Description=MCDash
    After=network.target

    [Service]
    WorkingDirectory=/path/to/mcdash
    ExecStart=/path/to/java -jar mcdash.jar
    Restart=always
    User=root

    [Install]
    WantedBy=multi-user.target
    ```
    Replace `/path/to/mcdash` with the path to the directory you created earlier and `/path/to/java` with the path 
    to the Java executable.

    ### Start the service

    To start the service, you have to execute the following command:
    ```bash
    systemctl start mcdash
    ```
    To enable the service on startup, you have to execute the following command:
    ```bash
    systemctl enable mcdash
    ```

    ### Access your credentials
    To view your password, you have to view the service logs with the following command:
    ```bash
    journalctl -u mcdash
    ```
    ::
::
::

## Logging in

To log in, you have to open the dashboard in your browser and enter your password. You can find the dashboard at
`http://<your-ip>:7867/`.
If you're running the server on your local machine, you can also use `http://localhost:7867/`.